---
title: Convos solves IRC's persistence problem
author: Iván Ávalos
---

When I first used IRC, back in the old days of mid-2020, I was shocked
and disappointed by the lack of features in IRC that I consider
essential for any messaging protocol—such as persistent sessions and
conversation store. I was born in the boom of the Internet, when tons
of fancy proprietary IM platforms, such as Windows Live Messenger and
Facebook, were already popular, so I grew up with features made
popular by these platforms.

Things like IRC and AIM might have been the norm in the 90's, but the
youngest generations (mine included) are growing up with different
standards of what a decent and usable IM platform/protocol should be
like. As a result of huge innovations in communications technology, we
now expect a lot more from software and services than older
generations did (I suppose). IRC might seem archaic and useless to
most people born after 1998, but that's something that can be solved
(mostly).

Persistent sessions? Bouncers! Conversation store? Bouncers! E2EE?
Well, some people use OTR. Ease of use? Depends on the
client. Self-hosting your personal bouncer is what most people seem to
do in order to solve the persistence problem and store conversations
(logging); but last time I checked, they are not precisely easy to
configure and require some sysadmin skills; hosted SaaS solutions
(e.g. IRC Cloud) are rare and not free (as in freedom or free
beer). These options are definitely an entry barrier for the
non-tech-savvy majority of users, one that is incompatible with the
just works™ philosophy.

But, guess what? There is something better than bouncers and
proprietary services: Convos! Yes, Convos! A free (as in freedom) and
open source client-bouncer-platform mixture created by an independent
four people non-profit called convos-chat. It consists of an always
running shared IRC bouncer and an intuitive web client that looks just
like any other IRC client. It's something you self-host as well, but
it's way, way easier to configure, manage and share with friends and
family, and even offer as a paid service to other people. It is a
perfectly integrated all-in-one solution that solves most IRC
problems.

I had made my poor laptop suffer with Amphetamine (for macOS) and
Textual for nearly a month, when I discovered this wonderful thing,
and were able to put my laptop to rest. There were some issues, which
were immediately solved by my friend Batman (jhthorsen's nick in
Freenode, not the crazy guy that appears in the Marvel comics created
by Steve Jobs), and now Convos is nearly perfect. Thanks, Batman and
convos-chat, you've done an excellent job in making IRC better for
everyone!
